At this early stage of the course, we are creating programs that are not displayed in an attractive
or interactive user interface, but in console, which is basically a system window that displays the
results of our code.
As our program needs to print something on the screen, the print lines are added down one by one,
accumulating one after the other, and the screen only restarts when we execute a new code.
However, during the execution of code, we may need that the console screen is cleared to show something
else without exiting the program, as the Petrom console is actually a simulation of the system console.
This is done differently depending on the ID we are working with.
In our case, Python and the operating system you have on your computer.
To be able to do this in pie chart, we need to do two things.
First, import system from OS, which is the function we need to do, and second, declare the system
function where we want the screen to be cleaned and inside the brackets we must pass an argument that
will depend on the operating system you are working with.
If you're using Windows, you will put seals between quotation marks and if you are using another operating
operating system, right?
Clear between quotation marks.
But that's not all for this to work as we expect.
We must first make a modification in the PI charm configuration, but we will show you that on the computer.
Remember that this way of doing it only works in pi charm and that if you decide to work with another
ID, you will have to investigate the particular way with which the software performs this task.
All right.
Let's get into PI term to see how this works.
And we're here in Pi Charm and we'll illustrate this with an example.
We'll start by creating a variable named name and in which a user will have to input data and we'll
ask the user to enter a name, colon and space.
There will be another variable named age and we'll ask the user to enter an age and that's it.
Then we'll create a print function in which we'll return some basic information to the user, such as
your name is.
Then we type name in brackets.
You know how to do this?
Well, we tell them you are.
We put the age here and we finish it with years old and that's it.
Now, if you execute this run and run and choose this clean console option, enter a name.
My name is Ferry and now the time has come for me to reveal my age.
I'm 45 years old.
And here it says, Your name is Fadi and you are 45 years old.
So everything's perfect.
But suppose that after I enter my personal data, I want the console to clean itself and only show the
answers.
To do this, I need to adopt some approach, just like Phil explained to you.
I first need to import the module that allows me to carry out this task.
From OS we will import sys system has the approach we need.
It's underlined in gray like it's saying why do you import this if you're not going to use it?
Well py charms a bit impatient.
It won't wait for us to implement this.
Now we have to type our system where we want the screen to be cleaned.
That is right here.
This is after the user has entered their data.
And then, according to your operating system, you'll enter a parameter between brackets.
In my case, I type seals since I work with Windows.
If you're using another operating system, you have to type clear.
Now I'm going to show you what happens if I execute this as it is.
I've done everything I needed to do, so it should work.
I'll type 50 here and I'll enter my age here and it remains the same.
It hasn't deleted anything.
There's just a tiny rectangle before the answer, which will be the location of the clear I've created
here.
Well, the second part of this task is missing.
I have to set up Pi charm to emulate a real system console.
In my case, a Windows console.
So we go to run, then debug and then we go to edit configurations which will display a menu in which
we can adjust several options of our console.
Among them, there's emulate terminal in output console.
We'll take it.
So we're enabling this console which belongs to Pi Charm to emulate the Windows console better.
Once I've ticked this option, I'll click on Apply and close the menu.
Now we'll execute it again and see the difference.
So now it looks different.
We can see a flickering white rectangle.
I'll enter my name again, which is very then my age, and I'll change it because I want to be 25 again.
So as you can see, the previous text was deleted since System CLS was executed.
That stands for clean screen and now the result has appeared in programs like The Hangman.
This will come in handy since the system would delete the previous lines every time the user chooses
a letter so the user wouldn't have to see chunks of code piling up.
So we didn't apply this method when creating the game because we had been storing a mine of information
and that would have gotten quite complicated.
So today, however, we thought we'd have room to start using clean screen, which will make our programs
run a clearer code every time we need it.
So this is a way of cleaning our screen.
Now we'll go on to the next lecture, which is more interesting.
So see you there.